Prerequisites for node JS 

BASIC javascript
Es5 & Es6
Client server model


1. JavaScript
Node.js’s environment is developed for writing JavaScript code, hence we must have an 
adequate understanding of the core and advanced concepts of JavaScript. These concepts
include having knowledge about expressions, loops, data structures, callbacks, functions,
objects, this keyword, event handlers, and other related topics. It is recommended to 
brush up on your JavaScript concepts before learning Node.js.

2. Asynchronous code
Before diving into Node.js, you need to be well aware of asynchronous code and its working.
Asynchronous code or architecture means the program can do multiple tasks simultaneously 
without disturbing the main thread execution. JavaScript makes use of this model via 
callbacks. The majority of the functions in Node.js are asynchronous in nature.

3. CLI
Command Line Interface also known as CLI is a text-based user interface through which you 
can type commands to make your computer execute certain tasks. Once you are comfortable 
with using CLI, then you will get a hang of running nvm, npm as well as executing your
Node.js projects easily.

4. NPM
Node Package Manager or the NPM is a very powerful tool that helps in managing the 
server-side dependencies of any Node.js project. Through NPM, one can easily install,
upgrade or even delete various libraries or packages of JavaScript when required.
NPM is not the only package manager that is compatible with Node.js, the most popular 
package manager among developers is Yarn which was developed by the engineers at Facebook.

5. HTTP
In situations where you need to retrieve data from a data source or send certain data,
you will need to make an API request to that server through HTTP. Having a basic knowledge 
of HTTP requests and HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE, etc., will be 
beneficial for you while working on a web project.

6. ES6+ Syntax
Currently, for JavaScript, the ECMAScript 2015 or ES6 is the standard scripting language. 
ES6 is the second major revision in JavaScript which involves important features like
the let and const keyword, for loops, default parameters, arrow functions, classes, and 
many more. Hence it is advised to be familiar with all these features.