//mongoDB compass install
//windrow msi 
//above 150mb

In compass select "connect"

In cmd "set vaiable path" "mongo"    connect or not check mongoDB


MongoDB Compass is a powerful GUI for querying, aggregating, and analyzing your MongoDB
data in a visual environment. Compass is free to use and source available, and can be run
on macOS, Windows, and Linux.

MongoDB Compass is the official GUI for MongoDB, maintained by MongoDB itself. MongoDB
Compass helps users make clever decisions about the data structure, querying, indexing, 
and many more actions you can perform on the database.




What is MongoDB Compass?
MongoDB Compass is a GUI to explore, analyze, and interact with the content stored in a 
MongoDB database without knowing or using queries.

Compass a GUI alternative to the Mongo shell, which we’ve previously discussed. 
MongoDB Compass is an open-source tool. You can find its GitHub repository here.

What can you do with MongoDB Compass?
MongoDB Compass is a much better alternative for the Mongo shell. 
Compass can carry out all the operations that Mongo Shell does and more, including:

Visualize and explore data stored in your database
Create databases and Insert, update, and delete data in your database
Get immediate real-time server statistics
Understand performance issues with visual explain plans
Manage your indexes
Validate your data with JSON schema validation rules
Extendable via plugins
You can enjoy the benefits of MongoDB’s powerful features by installing the
full version of Compass. It’s free to use for everyone and will make working with 
MongoDB easier than any other tool.

Now, let’s install MongoDB Compass.

Installing MongoDB Compass
It’s important to note that MongoDB Compass comes in three editions:

Compass has the full capabilities and features of MongoDB Compass.
Compass Read-Only is limited to the read operations. You won’t have the capability 
to edit, write, or delete.
Compass Isolated does not involve any requests for the network.