MongoDB Introduction:-

MongoDB, the most popular NoSQL database, is an open-source document-oriented database.
The term ‘NoSQL’ means ‘non-relational’. It means that MongoDB isn’t based on the table-
like relational database structure but provides an altogether different mechanism for 
storage and retrieval of data. This format of storage is called BSON ( similar to JSON 
format). 

A simple MongoDB document Structure: 

{
  title: 'Geeksforgeeks',
  by: 'Harshit Gupta',
  url: 'https://www.geeksforgeeks.org',
  type: 'NoSQL'
} 

SQL:-RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (RDBMS)	
NoSQL:-Non-relational or distributed database system.

SQL:-These databases have fixed or static or predefined schema	
NoSQL:-They have dynamic schema

SQL:-These databases are not suited for hierarchical data storage.	
NoSQL:-These databases are best suited for hierarchical data storage.

SQL:-These databases are best suited for complex queries	
NoSQL:-These databases are not so good for complex queries

SQL:-Vertically Scalable
NoSQL:-	Horizontally scalable

SQL:-Follows ACID property	
NoSQL:-Follows CAP(consistency, availability, partition tolerance)

SQL:-Examples: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MS-SQL Server etc	
NoSQL:-Examples: MongoDB, GraphQL, HBase, Neo4j, Cassandra etc



JSON:-Standard file format Type.	
BSON:-Binary file format Type.

JSON:-Language free organize utilized for offbeat server browser communication.	
 BSON:-     Binary JSON which comprise of a list of requested components containing a
          field title, sort, and a esteem. Field title sorts are ordinarily a string.

JSON:-Broadly JSON comprises of question and cluster where the question could be a 
collection of key-value sets and the cluster is requested list of values.	
 BSON:-   The parallel encoding method comprises of extra data such as lengths of
  strings and the protest subtypes. In addition, BinData and Date information sorts are
   the information sorts which are not upheld in JSON.

JSON:-JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
BSON:-	BSON stands for Binary JavaScript Object Notation.

JSON:-JSON data contains its data basic in JSON format.	
BSON:-BSON gives extra datatypes over the JSON data.

JSON:-Database like AnyDB, redis etc stores information into JSON format.	
BSON:-MongoDB stores data in BSON format.

JSON:-JSON uses less space in comparison to BSON.	
BSON:-BSON uses more space as compared to JSON.

MongoDB Features
Ad-hoc queries for optimized, real-time analytics. ...
Indexing appropriately for better query executions. ...
Replication for better data availability and stability. ...
Sharding. ...
Load balancing.

Where do we use MongoDB?

MongoDB is preferred over RDBMS in the following scenarios:

Big Data: If you have huge amount of data to be stored in tables, think of MongoDB before
RDBMS databases. MongoDB has built-in solution for partitioning and sharding your database.

Unstable Schema: Adding a new column in RDBMS is hard whereas MongoDB is schema-less.
 Adding a new field does not effect old documents and will be very easy.
 
Distributed data Since multiple copies of data are stored across different servers,
recovery of data is instant and safe even if there is a hardware failure.
Language Support by MongoDB:

MongoDB currently provides official driver support for all popular programming languages 
like C, C++, Rust, C#, Java, Node.js, Perl, PHP, Python, Ruby, Scala, Go, and Erlang.